h1. MT Server Land Software Package

h2. Quick Setup Guide

0. Install django 1.2.x, Python 2.6.x
1. @python manage.py runserver@
2. Point your browser to @http://127.0.0.1:8000@

More details to be added soon, in case of problems, drop me an email:
 @cfedermann@dfki.de@.

h2. Setting Up Worker Servers

You can find a dummy worker implementation within @workers/@. The dummy worker will block for a certain amount of seconds and then return an all-uppercase version of the input text it received.

A sample session with the dummy worker is shown below:

pre. longint:workers cfedermann$ ./start-worker.py 
pre. 
pre.     usage: ./start-worker.py <worker> <host> <port>
pre. 
pre.     registered worker servers:
    - DummyWorker
pre. 
pre. longint:workers cfedermann$ ./start-worker.py DummyWorker localhost 1234
INFO:DummyWorker:DummyWorker listening on localhost:1234
INFO:DummyWorker:Started DummyWorker instance, serving via XML-RPC.
...
^Z
[1]+  Stopped                 ./start-worker.py DummyWorker localhost 1234
longint:workers cfedermann$ bg
[1]+ ./start-worker.py DummyWorker localhost 1234 &
longint:workers cfedermann$ ./stop-worker.py 
pre. 
pre.     usage: ./stop-worker.py <host> <port>
pre. 
pre. longint:workers cfedermann$ ./stop-worker.py localhost 1234
INFO:DummyWorker:Stopped DummyWorker instance.
localhost - - [20/Jul/2010 11:18:33] "POST / HTTP/1.0" 200 -
longint:workers cfedermann$ 
[1]+  Done                    ./start-worker.py DummyWorker localhost 1234
longint:workers cfedermann$