h1. Welcome to the mt-serverland wiki!

*MT Server Land* is an open-source architecture for MT, developed by DFKI's MT Group in Saarbrücken.

h2. Documentation
 * See [[license]] for more information.
 * The [[system architecture]] is described here.
 * [[API Interface]] planning goes here.

p. *Please note:* Added a Bing! worker server using a sample appID from "http://www.bing.com/community/forums/p/658908/9597507.aspx":http://www.bing.com/community/forums/p/658908/9597507.aspx.

h2. Required packages
 * Python 2.6.x
 * django 1.2.3
 * django-piston 0.2.2
 * python-protobuf 2.3.0

h2. Quick Setup Guide

1. Install Python 2.6.x.

2. Install django 1.2.x, do *NOT* use django-svn as this is *NOT TESTED* and likely to break things.
    If you are updating from a previous django version, *REMOVE* the django folder from your Python's
    site-packages folder *BEFORE* installing the new version!

3. Extract data to a folder named @serverland@:
    @git clone git://github.com/cfedermann/mt-serverland.git serverland@
    Do *NOT* name the folder @mt-serverland@ as this does not work with Python!

4. Install django-piston and python-protobuf.

5. Prepare development database (See next section)

6. @python manage.py runserver@

7. Point your browser to @http://127.0.0.1:8000@

8. @mkdir serverland/messages@, otherwise not @.message@ files can be created!

More details to be added soon, in case of problems, drop me an email: @cfedermann<at>gmail<dot>com@.

h2. Setting Up Development Database

Use @python manage.py syncdb@ to create the necessary database file. Answer "yes"
when creation of the superuser account is proposed and enter a username, an email and
the corresponding password. This user will have ALL privileges.

h2. Setting Up Worker Servers

You can find several worker implementations within @workers/@. The dummy worker will
block for a certain amount of seconds and then return an all-uppercase version of the input
text it received. Other workers (such as the Google, Bing and Yahoo! workers) connect to
external translation services and create real actual translations. To start a worker server,
move into the root folder of your MT Server Land installation, do *not* change into the
@workers@ directory!

A sample session with the dummy worker is shown below:

pre.. claymore:serverland cfedermann$ PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/start_worker.py 
  
	usage: workers/start_worker.py <worker> <host> <port> [logfile]
  
	registered worker servers:
	- LucyWorker
	- GoogleWorker
	- DummyWorker
	- BingWorker
	- YahooWorker
  
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/start_worker.py GoogleWorker localhost 1234 /tmp/my-logfile.txt
INFO:GoogleWorker:GoogleWorker listening on localhost:1234
INFO:GoogleWorker:Started GoogleWorker instance, serving via XML-RPC.
...
^Z
[1]+  Stopped                 PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/start_worker.py GoogleWorker localhost 1234 /tmp/my-logfile.txt
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ bg
[1]+ PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/start_worker.py GoogleWorker localhost 1234 /tmp/my-logfile.txt &
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/stop_worker.py 
  
	usage: workers/stop_worker.py <host> <port>
  
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/stop_worker.py localhost 1234
INFO:GoogleWorker:Stopped GoogleWorker instance.
localhost - - [15/Sep/2010 13:46:31] "POST / HTTP/1.0" 200 -
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ 
[1]+  Done                    PYTHONPATH=. python2.6 workers/start_worker.py GoogleWorker localhost 1234 /tmp/my-logfile.txt
claymore:serverland cfedermann$ 

p. Before you can actually use a worker server inside the MT Server Land application, you
have to create a corresponding @WorkerServer@ instance inside the django admin backend
at @http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/dashboard/workerserver/@.

*Important:* make sure you enter the hostname *including* the @http://@ prefix!